---
title: Breaking Chainges in v9
description: Follow this guide to upgrade from one major version to the other.
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
`nuxtjs/i18n` v9 is still an alpha version
::

## Upgrade to Vue I18n v10

Vue I18n has been upgraded from v9 to v10. Vue I18n v10 has no major feature additions, but there are some disruptive changes, such as dropping some features that were deprecated in v9 and integrating the API `$tc` into `$t`, which can be used in the Legacy API style 

Check the documentation [here](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#change-t-and-t-overloaded-signature-for-legacy-api-mode) for more information.


## Drop `jit` option

JIT compilation is now the default in Vue I18n v10. 

https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#default-enable-for-jit-compilation

Accordingly, the `jit` option in Nuxt I18n v8 is no longer needed, so this option has been removed.

## Directory restructure and `langDir` default value

We now use a default directory structure that is consistent with [directory structure changes in Nuxt 4](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/upgrade#new-directory-structure).

What changed
  * `langDir` now defaults to `locales`.
  * All i18n files are resolved relative to `<rootDir>/i18n`, this can be configured with the `restructureDir` option.

Here is an example of a project structure after this change:

```sh
app/
server/
i18n/
  locales/
    en.json
    ja.json
  i18n.config.ts
  localeDetector.ts
nuxt.config.ts
```

Reasons for change
  1. Context - i18n files are used both server-side and client-side, using a dedicated `i18n/` folder in the root directory outside `app/` and `server/` makes more sense.
  2. Clean - less clutter/fragmentation of i18n files, and should make resolving and loading files easier for us.

## Locale `iso` renamed to `language`

The `iso` property on a locale object has been renamed to `language` as the original name refers to ISO standards which describe valid language tags.