---
title: Browser language detection
description: Detect user browser's language.
---

By default, Nuxt i18n module attempts to redirect users to their preferred language by detecting their browser's language. This is controlled by the `detectBrowserLanguage` option.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    detectBrowserLanguage: {
      useCookie: true,
      cookieKey: 'i18n_redirected',
      redirectOn: 'root' // recommended
    }
  }
})
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
For better SEO, it's recommended to set `redirectOn` to `root` (which is the default value). When set, the language detection is only attempted when the user visits the root path (`/`) of the site. This allows crawlers to access the requested page rather than being redirected away based on detected locale. It also allows linking to pages in specific locales.
::

Browser language is detected either from `navigator` when running on client-side, or from the `accept-language` HTTP header. Configured `locales` (or locales `language` and/or `code` when locales are specified in object form) are matched against locales reported by the browser (for example `en-US,en;q=0.9,no;q=0.8`). If there is no exact match for the full locale, the language code (letters before `-`) are matched against configured locales.

To prevent redirecting users every time they visit the app, **Nuxt i18n module** sets a cookie using the detected locale. You can change the cookie's name by setting `detectBrowserLanguage.cookieKey` option to whatever you'd like, the default is _i18n_redirected_.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  detectBrowserLanguage: {
    useCookie: true,
    cookieKey: 'my_custom_cookie_name'
  }
}
```

If you'd rather have users be redirected to their browser's language every time they visit the app, disable the cookie by setting `detectBrowserLanguage.useCookie` to `false`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    detectBrowserLanguage: {
      useCookie: false
    }
  }
})
```

To completely disable the browser's language detection feature, set `detectBrowserLanguage` to `false`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    // ...
    detectBrowserLanguage: false
  }
})
```

To redirect the user every time they visit the app and keep their selected choice, enable `alwaysRedirect`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    // ...
    detectBrowserLanguage: {
      useCookie: true,
      alwaysRedirect: true
    }
  }
})
```

To use the cookie within a cross-origin environment (e.g. in an iFrame), you can set `cookieCrossOrigin: true`. This will change the cookie settings from `SameSite=Lax` to `SameSite=None; Secure`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    detectBrowserLanguage: {
      useCookie: true,
      cookieCrossOrigin: true
    }
  }
})
```
