---
title: Lazy-load translations
description: How to lazy-load translations.
---

For apps that contain a lot of translated content, it is preferable not to bundle all the messages in the main bundle but rather lazy-load only the language that the users selected.
This can be achieved with **Nuxt i18n module** by letting the module know where your translation files are located so it can dynamically import them when the app loads or when the user switches to another language.
To enable translations lazy-loading, follow these steps when configuring **Nuxt i18n module**:

- Set `lazy` option to `true` (or to [configuration object](/docs/options/lazy#lazy) if you want to customize some options).
- Configure `locales` option as an array of objects, where each object has a `file` or `files` key whose value is the translation file corresponding to the locale.
- Optionally, remove all messages that you might have passed to Vue I18n via the `vueI18n` option.
- Each `file` or `files` can return either an `Object`, or a function that returns `Promise` which must return an `Object`.

## Basic usage

Example files structure:

```
nuxt-project/
├── i18n/
│   ├── locales/
│   │   ├── en-US.json
│   │   ├── es-ES.js
│   │   ├── fr-FR.ts
├── nuxt.config.ts
```

Configuration example:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    locales: [
      {
        code: 'en',
        file: 'en-US.json'
      },
      {
        code: 'es',
        file: 'es-ES.js'
      },
      {
        code: 'fr',
        file: 'fr-FR.ts'
      }
    ],
    lazy: true,
    defaultLocale: 'en'
  }
})
```

```ts [lang/fr-FR.ts]
export default defineI18nLocale(async locale => {
  return {
    welcome: 'Bienvenue'
  }
})

// or

export default {
  welcome: 'Bienvenue'
}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
If your function returns an object of locale messages, **you must define it in the `defineI18nLocale` composable function**.

About `defineI18nLocale` details, see the [here](/docs/api#defineI18nLocale).
::

If the function returns an Object available in nuxt i18n module, you can configure the dynamic locale messages, like the API (including external API) or back-end, via fetch:

```ts
export default defineI18nLocale(locale => {
  // for example, fetch locale messages from nuxt server
  return $fetch(`/api/${locale}`)
})
```

## Multiple files lazy loading

The `files` property can be used to lazy load multiple files.

This is useful because it is efficient to manage multiple files that only define differences without duplicating locale messages.

For example, let’s take the case of supporting the Spanish language. According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_language#Geographical_distribution), there are **20 countries** where Spanish is spoken as an official language!

If these countries are all configured using `file`, it would be difficult to maintain due to the duplication of locale messages for each country.

In this scenario, it would be easier to keep all shared (common) locale messages for the target language in a separate file and define dialectal variations for each country separately is well to prevent duplication, which is easier to maintain.

The following is an example of a lang directory containing locale files for the Spanish language:

```
nuxt-project/
├── i18n/
│   ├── locales/
│   │   ├── es.json     # locale messages for common Spanish
│   │   ├── es-AR.json  # locale messages for Argentina
│   │   ├── es-UY.json  # locale messages for Uruguay
│   │   ├── es-US.json  # locale messages for Estados Unidos
|   |   ...             # other countries ...
├── nuxt.config.ts
```

The following is an example of the configuration in `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    locales: [
      /**
       * Example definition with `files` for Spanish speaking countries
       */
      {
        code: 'es-AR',
        name: 'Español (Argentina)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-AR.json`, and then merge 'es-AR.json' with 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-AR.json']
      },
      {
        code: 'es-UY',
        name: 'Español (Uruguay)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-UY.json`, and then merge 'es-UY.json' with 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-UY.json']
      },
      {
        code: 'es-US',
        name: 'Español (Estados Unidos)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-US.json`, and then merge 'es-US.json' with 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-US.json']
      }
    ],
    lazy: true,
    defaultLocale: 'en'
  }
})
```

Please note the usage of the `files` property, as the above configuration specifies an array containing multiple file names.

@nuxtjs/i18n will load locale messages with lazy loading in the order of the array specified in `files`. It then overrides the locale messages in the order in which they were loaded.

In the above `es-AR` example, which has `es.json` and `es-AR.json` defined in `files`. In this case, @nuxtjs/i18n lazy-loads `es.json`, then it lazy-loads `es-AR.json` and overrides `es.json` locale messages.

In the example above, only two files are defined for `files`, of course you can specify more files over 2 files. In that case, the files will be loaded and override in array order too.

By taking advantage of the characteristic that locale messages are overridden in sequence, it's possible to manage locale messages by defining them on a differential basis. By adding shared (common) locale messages as the first entry of `files`, followed by file entries of regional/dialectal locale messages, it's possible to manage resources while avoiding the duplication of locale messages.

## Caching

Lazy loaded locale messages are cached based on their filename, `file` and `files` shared across locales will be used from cache once loaded. By default caching is enabled for static files, and disabled for files that return messages via a function.

Caching can be configured per file by setting `file` or entries of `files` to objects with the following type signature `{ path: string, cache?: boolean}`. The example below demonstrates several valid file configurations.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  i18n: {
    locales: [
      /**
       * Example definition with `files` for Spanish speaking countries
       */
      {
        code: 'es-ES',
        name: 'Español (Spain)',
        // file with cache disabled
        file: { path: 'es.js', cache: false }
      },
      {
        code: 'es-AR',
        name: 'Español (Argentina)',
        // files with cache disabled
        files: [
          { path: 'es.js', cache: false },
          { path: 'es-AR.js', cache: false }
        ]
      },
      {
        code: 'es-UY',
        name: 'Español (Uruguay)',
        // strings and object configurations can be mixed
        files: [{ path: 'es.js', cache: false }, 'es-UY.json']
      }
    ],
    lazy: true,
    defaultLocale: 'en'
  }
})
```


## Using translations of non-loaded locale

As only the current locale translations are loaded you have to manually load a locale to be able to use its translations. 

Nuxt i18n extends Vue i18n to provide the `loadLocaleMessages` function to manually load locale messages, the example below demonstrates its usage.

```ts
const { loadLocaleMessages, t } = useI18n()

await loadLocaleMessages('nl')

const welcome = computed(() => t('welcome')) // Welcome!
const welcomeDutch = computed(() => t('welcome', 1, { locale: 'nl' })) // Welkom!
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
As messages could be loaded from a remote API invoking the `loadLocaleMessages` function will always load messages, unnecessary loading can impact performance.
::
