---
title: Browser
description: Browser locale management options
---

## `detectBrowserLanguage`

::alert{type="warning"}
// TODO:
🚧 This feature is not implemented **fully** yet.
::

- type: `object`
- default: `{ alwaysRedirect: false, fallbackLocale: '', redirectOn: 'root', useCookie: true, cookieCrossOrigin: false, cookieDomain: null, cookieKey: 'i18n_redirected', cookieSecure: false }`

Enables browser language detection to automatically redirect visitors to their preferred locale as they visit your site for the first time.

See also [Browser language detection](/browser-language-detection) for a guide.

::alert{type="info"}
Note that for better SEO it's recommended to set `redirectOn` to `root`.
::

Supported properties:

- `alwaysRedirect` (default: `false`) - Set to always redirect to the value stored in the cookie, not just on first visit.
- `fallbackLocale` (default: `null`) - If none of the locales match the browser's locale, use this one as a fallback.
- `redirectOn` (default: `root`) - Supported options:
  - `all` - detect browser locale on all paths.
  - `root` (recommended for improved SEO) - only detect the browser locale on the root path (`/`) of the site. Only effective when using strategy other than `'no_prefix'`.
  - `no prefix` - a more permissive variant of `root` that will detect the browser locale on the root path (`/`) and also on paths that have no locale prefix (like `/foo`). Only effective when using strategy other than `'no_prefix'`.
- `useCookie` (default: `true`) - If enabled, a cookie is set once the user has been redirected to browser's preferred locale, to prevent subsequent redirections. Set to `false` to redirect every time.
- `cookieKey` (default: `'i18n_redirected'`) - Cookie name.
- `cookieDomain` (default: `null`) - Set to override the default domain of the cookie. Defaults to the **host** of the site.
- `cookieCrossOrigin` (default: `false`) - When `true`, sets the flags `SameSite=None; Secure` on the cookie to allow cross-domain use of the cookie (required when app is embedded in an iframe).
- `cookieSecure` (default: `false`) - Sets the `Secure` flag for the cookie.

Set to false to disable.
