---
title: Migration Guide
description: Follow this guide to upgrade from one major version to the other.
---

## Upgrading from `nuxtjs/i18n` v9.x to v10.x

### Upgrade to Vue I18n v11
We have upgrade from Vue I18n v10 to v11, this major version bump deprecates the Legacy API mode and custom `v-t` directive and drops `tc` and `$tc` from Legacy API mode.

Check the documentation detailing the breaking changes [here](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking11.html).

### Deprecate `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"}
The `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"} Nuxt context function has been deprecated and will be removed in v11. 

This context function has limited use cases, the `useLocaleHead` composable offers the same functionality and is easier to use in combination with `useHead`.

### Deprecate `$getRouteBaseName()`{lang="ts"} in favor of `$routeBaseName()`{lang="ts"}
The `$getRouteBaseName()`{lang="ts"} Nuxt context function has been deprecated and will be removed in v11. 

We are renaming this function to `$routeBaseName()`{lang="ts"} to be consistent with the other context functions and their composable counterparts.

### Promote `experimental.autoImportTranslationFunctions` to `autoDeclare`
This functionality is stable and is now enabled by default, the option has been moved out of the `experimental` configuration object and renamed to `autoDeclare`.

### Promote `experimental.switchLocalePathLinkSSR`
This functionality is stable and is now enabled by default and the option to enable/disable it has been removed.

### Promote `experimental.hmr` to `hmr`
The HMR functionality is stable, it was already enabled by default but to reflect its stability it has been moved out of the `experimental` configuration object.

### Remove `restructureDir` migration path
To ease migration in v9 it was possible to disable the new directory structure by setting `restructureDir: false`, this has now been removed and we recommend using the default value of `'i18n'`.

### Dropped Nuxt context functions

The following functions have been removed from the Nuxt context.
* `$resolveRoute()`{lang="ts"}
* `$localeLocation()`{lang="ts"}

Steps to migrate
* `$resolveRoute()`{lang="ts"} -> use `$localeRoute()` instead
* `$localeLocation()`{lang="ts"} -> use `$localeRoute()` instead

### Drop `bundle.optimizeTranslationDirective`
This feature has been disabled and the option to enable it has been removed, see [the discussion in this issue](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/issues/3238#issuecomment-2672492536) for context on this change.

### Drop `experimental.generatedLocaleFilePathFormat`
File paths (e.g. locale files, vue-i18n configs) configured for this module are now removed entirely making this option obsolete.

### Removed exports from generated options files.
The generated options files in your projects are meant for internal use by this module at runtime and should never be used, more properties may be removed in the future.

The following exports have been removed from the generated options files (`#build/i18n.options.mjs` and `#internal/i18n/options.mjs`):
* `nuxtI18nOptions`
* `NUXT_I18N_MODULE_ID`
* `parallelPlugin`
* `isSSG`
* `hasPages`
* `DEFAULT_COOKIE_KEY`
* `DYNAMIC_PARAMS_KEY`
* `SWITCH_LOCALE_PATH_LINK_IDENTIFIER`

Reasons for removal: 
* These are no longer used by the module and might expose vulnerable information in the final build
* Some options are now used as static values for better tree-shaking resulting in a smaller project build.

### Removed options from runtime config
Several options set in the runtime config were only used to transfer build-time configuration to runtime and changing these at runtime could cause issues.

Instead of setting these on runtime config we now treat them as compiler constants, this way we can tree-shake any unused logic from a project build.

The following options have been removed from runtime config:
* `defaultDirection`
* `strategy`
  * You can access this on `useI18n()`{lang="ts"} or `$i18n`{lang="ts"}
* `lazy`
* `routeNameSeparator`
* `defaultLocaleRouteNameSuffix`
* `differentDomains`
* `multiDomainLocales`
  * Enabling this requires certain properties on locales at build-time, we do not see the use case for setting this at runtime.
* `trailingSlash`


## Upgrading from `nuxtjs/i18n` v8.x to v9.x

### Upgrade to Vue I18n v10

Vue I18n has been upgraded from v9 to v10. Vue I18n v10 has no major feature additions, but there are some disruptive changes, such as dropping some features that were deprecated in v9 and integrating the API `$tc()`{lang="ts"} into `$t()`{lang="ts"}, which can be used in the Legacy API style

Check the documentation [here](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#change-t-and-t-overloaded-signature-for-legacy-api-mode) for more information.

### Drop `jit` option

JIT compilation is now the default in Vue I18n v10.

https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#default-enable-for-jit-compilation

Accordingly, the `jit` option in Nuxt I18n v8 is no longer needed, so this option has been removed.

### Directory restructure and `langDir` default value

We now use a default directory structure that is consistent with [directory structure changes in Nuxt 4](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/upgrade#new-directory-structure).

What changed

- `langDir` now defaults to `'locales'`{lang="ts"}.
- All i18n files are resolved relative to `<rootDir>/i18n`, this can be configured with the `restructureDir` option.

Here is an example of a project structure after this change:

```sh
app/
server/
i18n/
  locales/
    en.json
    ja.json
  i18n.config.ts
  localeDetector.ts
nuxt.config.ts
```

Reasons for change

1. Context - i18n files are used both server-side and client-side, using a dedicated `i18n/` folder in the root directory outside `app/` and `server/` makes more sense.
2. Clean - less clutter/fragmentation of i18n files, and should make resolving and loading files easier for us.

To ease the migration to v9 you can disable this feature by setting `restructureDir: false`{lang="ts"}, this will be removed in v10.

### Locale `iso` renamed to `language`

The `iso` property on a locale object has been renamed to `language` to be consistent with the usage of Language Tags on the web (e.g. `navigator.language` and `Accept-Language`). The original `iso` property name referred to ISO standards which describe valid Language Tags, see the [related issue](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/issues/2449) for more details.

### Runtime config properties

Some properties have changed or swapped names to better fit their functionality, the runtime config properties configured by this module are mostly used for internal purposes and should not be relied upon but it's worth noting these changes.

| v8              | v9              | Notes                                                                                                                                                            |
| --------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `locales`       | `domainLocales` | This also changes the environment variable key to `NUXT_PUBLIC_I18N_DOMAIN_LOCALES_{code}_DOMAIN`, see [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/api/runtime-config#domainLocales) |
| `configLocales` | `locales`       |                                                                                                                                                                  |

### SEO - `useLocaleHead()`{lang="ts"}

The options parameter for `useLocaleHead()`{lang="ts"} and `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"} has changed in shape, having less verbose property names, as well as enabling the options by default.

This table compares the option properties of `useLocaleHead()`{lang="ts"} and `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"} for v8 and v9:

| v8                    | v9     | Notes                                                                 |
| --------------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-`                   | `lang` | New property to configure the `lang` html attributes, default: `true` |
| `addDirAttributes`    | `dir`  | Default changed: `false` -> `true`                                    |
| `addSeoAttributes`    | `seo`  | Default changed: `false` -> `true`                                    |
| `identifierAttribute` | `key`  |                                                                       |

We have added a `lang` property to the options parameter of `useLocaleHead()`{lang="ts"} and `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"}, originally this was not configurable on its own, see [`useLocaleHead()`{lang="ts"}](/docs/composables/use-locale-head) for details on its usage.

### Nuxt context functions

In v8 both the types and name of the injected context functions (such as `$localePath()`{lang="ts"}, `$switchLocalePath()`{lang="ts"} and [more](/docs/api/nuxt)) did not work as intended. You may have found that these functions worked when using them without prefix (`$`) even when not assigning these functions from a composable.

The types and names have been fixed in v9, if you have been using the unprefixed functions globally (without composable) in your project you will have to prefix these functions as they were originally intended.

- `getRouteBaseName()`{lang="ts"} -> `$getRouteBaseName()`{lang="ts"}
- `resolveRoute()`{lang="ts"} -> `$resolveRoute()`{lang="ts"}
- `localePath()`{lang="ts"} -> `$localePath()`{lang="ts"}
- `localeRoute()`{lang="ts"} -> `$localeRoute()`{lang="ts"}
- `localeLocation()`{lang="ts"} -> `$localeLocation()`{lang="ts"}
- `switchLocalePath()`{lang="ts"} -> `$switchLocalePath()`{lang="ts"}
- `localeHead()`{lang="ts"} -> `$localeHead()`{lang="ts"}

### Removal of deprecated `dynamicRouteParams` option and legacy dynamic route parameters implementation

Setting dynamic route parameters by setting the `nuxtI18n` property with `definePageMeta()`{lang="ts"} has been fully removed in favor of the [`useSetI18nParams()`{lang="ts"} composable](/docs/composables/use-set-i18n-params), this feature is enabled by default which means the `dynamicRouteParams` option is no longer necessary.

The composable usage is similar to that of the deprecated implementation, see the migration example below:

```vue
<script>
definePageMeta({
  nuxtI18n: {
    en: { id: 'my-post' },
    fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
  }
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

Should be changed to:

```vue
<script>
const setI18nParams = useSetI18nParams()
setI18nParams({
  en: { id: 'my-post' },
  fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

Check out the [Lang Switcher](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters) guide for more details.

## Upgrading from `nuxtjs/i18n` v7.x to v8.x

### Deprecated `vueI18n` option to not accept `createI18n` options

This is to ensure stability and distinction between compile / build-time and runtime since vue-i18n is used in runtime.

For more details please see the [GitHub Pull request](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/pull/1948#issuecomment-1482749302)

You can continue defining `vueI18n` options in `i18n.config`. Refer to the [Vue i18n](/docs/api/options) and [basic usage](/docs/getting-started/usage#translate-with-vue-i18n) sections for examples on how to do so.

### Change the route key rules in `pages` option

The key of route set in the `pages` option has been changed to be file-based relative to the `pages/` directory in Nuxt, and **excluding the leading `/`**.

The reason is that it is more intuitive to match Nuxt file-based routing.

Nuxt2:

```bash
-| pages/
---| about.vue
---| users/
-----| _id/
-------| profile.vue
---| index.vue
```

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  parsePages: false,
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/_id/profile': {
      fr: '/u/:id/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

Nuxt3:

```
pages/
├── about.vue
├── users/
├──── [id]/
├────── profile.vue
├── index.vue
```

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  customRoutes: 'config',
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/[id]/profile': {
      fr: '/u/[id]/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

### Deprecated `localeLocation()`

Use `localeRoute` instead for the Options API style. The reason for deprecation is due to I/F changes around route resolving in Vue Router.

### Deprecated `localeLocation()` on Nuxt Context APIs

Deprecated for the same reason as the `localeLocation()` Option API.

### Deprecated `$nuxtI18nHead()`

Use `localeHead()` instead for the Options API style.

### Deprecated `nuxtI18n` component option

Replaced by the `defineI18nRoute()` compiler macro as it can be optimized with bundler.

Nuxt2:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script>
import Vue from 'vue'

export default Vue.extend({
  nuxtI18n: {
    paths: {
      pl: '/polish'
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

Nuxt3:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup>
defineI18nRoute({
  paths: {
    pl: '/polish'
  }
})
</script>
```

### Deprecated `parsePages` option

Use the `customRoutes` option. because the option name `parsePages` is not intuitive.

```diff [nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],

   i18n: {
     // ...
-    parsePages: false,
+    customRoutes: 'config',
     // ...
   }
 })
```

### Deprecated `vuex` option

Vuex is no longer required by the Nuxt i18n module, use the `useSetI18nParams` composable to set dynamic route parameters instead.

```diff [nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],

   i18n: {
     // ...
-    vuex: true,
     // ...
   }
 })
```

For more details, see [Lang Switcher](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters).

### Deprecated `sortRoutes` option

This option is no longer necessary since routing in Nuxt 3 no longer requires sorting.

### Deprecated `skipNuxtState` option

This option is no longer necessary as it can be replaced with [multiple files lazy loading](/docs/guide/lazy-load-translations#multiple-files-lazy-loading), which is supported in v8.

### Deprecated `i18n:extend-messages` hook

Replaced by the `i18n:registerModule` hook, reasoning behind deprecation described below:

- At build-time, the locale resources specified in the nuxt module are pre-compiled to javascript, and those resources are serialized into the runtime context with the nuxt template, which is unsafe.
- Huge locale messages impacted performance.

The alternative `i18n:registerModule` hook works the same way as lazy loading translations. Only the file information of the locale messages is serialized and passed to the runtime context. The locale messages are loaded by dynamic import and then lazy-loaded, with no negative effect on performance.

For more details see [Extending messages hook](/docs/guide/extend-messages).

### Deprecated `vueI18nLoader` option

This option is no longer necessary, because i18n custom block is supported by [unplugin-vue-i18n](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/tree/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n) **as default**.

### Deprecated `onBeforeLanguageSwitch` and `onLanguageSwitched` function options

These functions can now be triggered using Nuxt runtime hooks. Please refer to [runtime hooks](/docs/guide/runtime-hooks) to see how to use these.

### Changed some export APIs name on Nuxt context

The following APIs have been changed to `$`:

- `i18n` -> `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()` -> `$getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()` -> `$localePath()`
- `localeRoute()` -> `$localeRoute()`
- `switchLocalePath()` -> `$switchLocalePath()`

### Deprecated export APIs in Vuex

Vuex extension APIs were removed, because Vuex no longer required in Nuxt3.

The following APIs are no longer available:

- `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()`
- `localeRoute()`
- `localeLocation()`
- `switchLocalePath()`
