---
title: Routing & Strategies
description: '@nuxtjs/i18n overrides Nuxt default routes to add locale prefixes to every URL with routing strategies'
---

## Routing

**@nuxtjs/i18n** overrides Nuxt default routes to add locale prefixes to every URL (except in `no_prefix` strategy).
Say your app supports two languages: French and English as the default language, and you have the following pages in your project:

```asciidoc
└── pages
    ├── about
    │   └── index.vue
    └── index.vue
```

This would result in the following routes being generated

```js
[
  {
    path: "/",
    name: "index___en",
    ...
  },
  {
    path: "/fr/",
    name: "index___fr",
    ...
  },
  {
    path: "/about",
    name: "about___en",
    ...
  },
  {
    path: "/fr/about",
    name: "about___fr",
    ...
  }
]
```

Note that routes for the English version do not have any prefix because it is the default language, see routing strategies next secyion for more details.

## Strategies

There are 4 supported strategies that affect how app's routes are generated:

### `no_prefix`

With this strategy, your routes won't have a locale prefix added. The locale will be detected & changed without changing the URL. This implies that you have to rely on browser & cookie detection, and implement locale switches by calling the i18n API.

::alert{type="warning"}

This strategy doesn't support [Custom paths](./custom-paths) and [Ignore routes](./ignoring-localized-routes) features.

::

### `prefix_except_default`

Using this strategy, all of your routes will have a locale prefix added except for the default language.

### `prefix`

With this strategy, all routes will have a locale prefix.

### `prefix_and_default`

This strategy combines both previous strategies behaviours, meaning that you will get URLs with prefixes for every language, but URLs for the default language will also have a non-prefixed version (though the prefixed version will be preferred when `detectBrowserLanguage` is enabled.

### Configuration

To configure the strategy, use the `strategy` option.
Make sure that you have a `defaultLocale` defined, especially if using `prefix_except_default`, `prefix_and_default` or `no_prefix` strategy. For other strategies it's also recommended to set it as it's gonna be used as a fallback when attempting to redirect from 404 page.

```js {}[nuxt.config.js]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...

  i18n: {
    strategy: 'prefix_except_default',
    defaultLocale: 'en'
  },

  // ...
})
```
