---
title: Misc
description: Miscellaneous options.
---

## `experimental`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ localeDetector: '', switchLocalePathLinkSSR: false, autoImportTranslationFunctions: false }`

Supported properties:

- `localeDetector` (default: `''`) - Specify the locale detector to be called per request on the server side. You need to specify the filepath where the locale detector is defined.
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
About how to define the locale detector, see the [`defineI18nLocaleDetector` API](/docs/api#definei18nlocaledetector)
::
- `switchLocalePathLinkSSR` (default: `false`) - Changes the way dynamic route parameters are tracked and updated internally, improving language switcher SSR when using the [`SwitchLocalePathLink`](/docs/api/components#switchlocalepathlink) component.
- `autoImportTranslationFunctions` (default: `false`) - Automatically imports/initializes `$t`, `$rt`, `$d`, `$n`, `$tm` and `$te` functions in `<script setup>` when used.
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
This feature relies on [Nuxt's Auto-imports](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/auto-imports) and will not work if this has been disabled.
- `typedPages` (default: `true`) - Generates route types used in composables and configuration, this feature is enabled by default when Nuxt's `experimental.typedRoutes` is enabled.
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
This feature relies on [Nuxt's `experimental.typedRoutes`](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/going-further/experimental-features#typedpages) and will not work if this is not enabled.
::


## `customBlocks`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ defaultSFCLang: 'json', globalSFCScope: false }`

Configure the `i18n` custom blocks of SFC.

Supported properties:

- `defaultSFCLang` (default: `'json'`) - Specify the content for all your inlined i18n custom blocks on your SFC. about details, see [here](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/blob/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n/README.md#defaultsfclang)

- `globalSFCScope` (default: `false`) - Whether to include all `i18n` custom blocks on your SFC on global scope. about details, see [here](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/blob/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n/README.md#globalsfcscope)

## `types`

- type: `string` (`composition` or `legacy`)
- default: `composition`

Enforces the type definition of the API style to be used. If you set `composition`, Composition API types provided by Vue I18n and `@nuxtjs/i18n` are supported, else `legacy`, Options API types are supported.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
If it can not detect Nuxt configuration changing, you may need to run `nuxi prepare`.
::

## `debug`

- type: `boolean | 'verbose'`
- default: `false`

Whether to use `@nuxtjs/i18n` debug mode. If `true` or `'verbose'`, logs will be output to the console, setting this to `'verbose'` will also log loaded messages objects.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
The purpose of this option is to help identify any problems with `@nuxtjs/i18n`.

Don't enable this option in production. It's not optimized for it.
::

## `parallelPlugin`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Set the plugin as `parallel`. See [nuxt plugin loading strategy](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins#loading-strategy).

## `restructureDir`

- type: `string`
- default: `i18n`

Can be used to configure the directory used to resolve i18n files.
