---
title: Routing
description: Routing and Strategies options.
---

## `baseUrl`

- type: `string` or `function`
- default: `''`

The fallback base URL to use as a prefix for alternate URLs in `hreflang` tags. By default VueRouter's base URL will be used and only if that is not available, fallback URL will be used.

Can also be a function (will be passed a Nuxt Context as a parameter) that returns a string. Useful to make base URL dynamic based on request headers.

This property can also be set using [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/options/runtime-config).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
It's especially important to set this option when using SEO features, in which case it's required that generated SEO tags use fully-qualified URLs.
::

## `locales`

- type: `array`
- default: `[]`

List of locales supported by your app. Can either be an array of codes (`['en', 'fr', 'es']`) or an array of objects for more complex configurations:

```json
[
  { "code": "en", "language": "en-US", "file": "en.js", "dir": "ltr" },
  { "code": "ar", "language": "ar-EG", "file": "ar.js", "dir": "rtl" },
  { "code": "fr", "language": "fr-FR", "file": "fr.js" }
]
```

When using an object form, the properties can be:

- `code` (**required**) - unique identifier of the locale
- `language` (required when using SEO features) - A language-range used for SEO features and for matching browser locales when using [`detectBrowserLanguage`](/docs/options/browser#detectbrowserlanguage) functionality. Should use the [language tag syntax](https://www.w3.org/International/articles/language-tags/) as defined by the IETF's [BCP47](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp47), for example:
  - `'en'` (`language` subtag for English)
  - `'fr-CA'` (`language+region` subtags for French as used in Canada)
  - `'zh-Hans'` (`language+script` subtags for Chinese written with Simplified script)
- `file` - The name of the file. Will be resolved relative to `langDir` path when loading locale messages from file.
- `files` - The name of the file in which multiple locale messages are defined. Will be resolved relative to `langDir` path when loading locale messages from file.
- `dir` - The dir property specifies the direction of the elements and content, value could be `'rtl'`, `'ltr'` or `'auto'`.
- `domain` (required when using [`differentDomains`](/docs/options/domain#differentdomains)) - the domain name you'd like to use for that locale (including the port if used). This property can also be set using [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/options/runtime-config).
- `domainDefault` (required when using [`differentDomains`](/docs/options/domain#differentdomains) while one or more of the domains having multiple locales) - set `domainDefault` to `true` for each locale that should act as a default locale for the particular domain.
- `...` - any custom property set on the object will be exposed at runtime. This can be used, for example, to define the language name for the purpose of using it in a language selector on the page.

You can access all the properties of the current locale through the `localeProperties` property. When using an array of codes, it will only include the `code` property.

## `defaultDirection`

- type: `string`
- default: `ltr`

The app's default direction. Will only be used when `dir` is not specified.

## `defaultLocale`

- type: `string` or `null`
- default: `null`

The app's default locale. Should match code of one of defined `locales`.

When using `prefix_except_default` strategy, URLs for locale specified here won't have a prefix. **It's recommended to set this to some locale** regardless of chosen strategy, as it will be used as a fallback locale when navigating to a non-existent route.

## `strategy`

- type: `string`
- default: `'prefix_except_default'`

Routes generation strategy. Can be set to one of the following:

- `'no_prefix'`: routes won't have a locale prefix
- `'prefix_except_default'`: locale prefix added for every locale except default
- `'prefix'`: locale prefix added for every locale
- `'prefix_and_default'`: locale prefix added for every locale and default

## `customRoutes`

- type: `string` (`page` or `config`) | `undefined`
- default: `page`

Whether [custom paths](/docs/guide/custom-paths) are extracted from page files

## `pages`

- type: `object`
- default: `{}`

If `customRoutes` option is disabled with `config`, the module will look for custom routes in the `pages` option. Refer to the [Routing](/docs/guide) for usage.

## `skipSettingLocaleOnNavigate`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

If `true`, the locale will not be set when navigating to a new locale. This is useful if you want to wait for the page transition to end before setting the locale yourself using [`finalizePendingLocaleChange`](/docs/api/vue-i18n#finalizependinglocalechange). See more information in [Wait for page transition](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#wait-for-page-transition).

## `defaultLocaleRouteNameSuffix`

- type: `string`
- default: `'default'`

Internal suffix added to generated route names for default locale, if strategy is `prefix_and_default`. You shouldn't need to change this.

## `routesNameSeparator`

- type: `string`
- default: `'___'`

Internal separator used for generated route names for each locale. You shouldn't need to change this.

## `rootRedirect`

- type: `string` or `object` or `null`
- default: `null`

Set to a path to which you want to redirect users accessing the root URL (`/`). Accepts either a string or an object with `statusCode` and `path` properties. E.g

```json
{
  "statusCode": 301,
  "path": "about-us"
}
```

## `dynamicRouteParams`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Whether to localize dynamic route parameters.

If `true`, you can set the dynamic route parameter to `nuxtI18n` field of `definePageMeta` for each locale:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/i18n'],

  i18n: {
    dynamicRouteParams: true
  }
})
```

```vue
<script setup>
definePageMeta({
  nuxtI18n: {
    en: { id: 'my-post' },
    fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
  }
})
</script>

<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

See more information in [Dynamic route parameters](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters)
