---
title: Browser
description: Browser locale management options.
---

## `detectBrowserLanguage`

- type: `object` | `boolean`
- default: `{ alwaysRedirect: false, fallbackLocale: '', redirectOn: 'root', useCookie: true, cookieCrossOrigin: false, cookieDomain: null, cookieKey: 'i18n_redirected', cookieSecure: false }`

Enables browser language detection to automatically redirect visitors to their preferred locale as they visit your site for the first time.

See also [Browser language detection](/docs/guide/browser-language-detection) for a guide.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Note that for better SEO it's recommended to set `redirectOn` to `root`.
::

Set to `false` to disable.

Supported properties:

### `alwaysRedirect`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Set to always redirect to the value stored in the cookie, not just on first visit.

### `fallbackLocale`

- type: `string` or `null`

If none of the locales match the browser's locale, use this one as a fallback.

### `redirectOn`

- type: `string`
- default: `root`

Supported options:

- `all` - detect browser locale on all paths.
- `root` (recommended for improved SEO) - only detect the browser locale on the root path (`/`) of the site. Only effective when using strategy other than `'no_prefix'`.
- `no prefix` - a more permissive variant of `root` that will detect the browser locale on the root path (`/`) and also on paths that have no locale prefix (like `/foo`). Only effective when using strategy other than `'no_prefix'`.

### `useCookie`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

If enabled, a cookie is set once the user has been redirected to browser's preferred locale, to prevent subsequent redirects. Set to `false` to redirect every time.

### `cookieKey`

- type: `string`
- default: `'i18n_redirected'`

Cookie name.

### `cookieDomain`

- type: `string` or `null`
- default: `null`

Set to override the default domain of the cookie. Defaults to the **host** of the site.

### `cookieCrossOrigin`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

When `true`, sets the flags `SameSite=None; Secure` on the cookie to allow cross-domain use of the cookie (required when app is embedded in an iframe).

### `cookieSecure`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Sets the `Secure` flag for the cookie.
