# Migration guide

Follow this guide to upgrade from one major version to the other.

---

::alert{type="warning"}
Here, deprecated = removed
::

## Upgrading from `nuxtjs/i18n` v7.x

### Deprecated `vueI18n` option to not accept `createI18n` options

This is to ensure stability and distinction between compile / build-time and runtime since vue-i18n is used in runtime.

See more about detail, please [GitHub Pull request](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/pull/1948#issuecomment-1482749302)

You can continue defining `vueI18n` options in `i18n.config`. Refer to [Vue i18n](/options/vue-i18n) section and [basic usage](/getting-started/basic-usage/#translate-with-vue-i18n) for an example.

### Change the route key rules in `pages` option

The key of route set in the `pages` option has been changed to be file-based relative to the `pages/` directory in Nuxt, and **excluding the leading `/`**. 

The reason is that it is more intuitive to match Nuxt file-based routing.


Nuxt2:

```asciidoc
pages/
├── about.vue
├── users/
├──── _id/
├────── profile.vue
├── index.vue
```

```js {}[nuxt.config.js]
i18n: {
  parsePages: false,
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/_id/profile': {
      fr: '/u/:id/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

Nuxt3:

```asciidoc
pages/
├── about.vue
├── users/
├──── [id]/
├────── profile.vue
├── index.vue
```

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  customRoutes: 'config',
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/[id]/profile': {
      fr: '/u/[id]/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

### Deprecated `localeLocation()`

Use `localeRoute` instead for Options API style. The reason for deprecation is due to I/F changes around route resolving in Vue Router.

### Deprecated `localeLocation()` on Nuxt Context APIs

The Reason is same `localeLocation()` Option API.

### Deprecated `$nuxtI18nHead()`

Use `localeHead()` instead for Options API style.

### Deprecated `nuxtI18n` component option

Use `defineI18nRoute()` compiler macro. because it can be optimized with bundler.

Nuxt2:
```vue {}[pages/about.vue]
<script>
import Vue from 'vue'

export default Vue.extend({
  nuxtI18n: {
    paths: {
      pl: '/polish'
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

Nuxt3:
```vue {}[pages/about.vue]
<script setup>
defineI18nRoute({
  paths: {
    pl: '/polish'
  }
})
</script>
```

### Deprecated `parsePages` option

Use `customRoutes` option. because the option name `parsePages` is not intuitive.

```diff {}[nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],
 
   i18n: {
     // ...
-    parsePages: false,
+    customRoutes: 'config',
     // ...
   }
 })
```

### Deprecated `vuex` option

Use `dynamicRouteParams` option. because, vuex no longer requires in Nuxt3.

```diff {}[nuxt.config.js]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],
 
   i18n: {
     // ...
-    vuex: true,
+    dynamicRouteParams: true,
     // ...
   }
 })
```

About details, See also [Lang Switcher](/api/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters).

### Deprecated `sortRoutes` option

This option is no longer necessary since routing in Nuxt 3 no longer requires sorting.

### Deprecated `skipNuxtState` option

This option is no longer necessary as it can be replaced with [multiple files lazy loading](/guide/lazy-load-translations#multiple-files-lazy-loading), which is supported in v8.

### Deprecated `i18n:extend-messages` hook

Use `i18n:registerModule` hook. because, there are two reasons for the below:

- At build-time, the locale resources specified in the nuxt module are pre-compiled to javascript, and those resources are serialized into the runtime context with the nuxt template, which is unsafe.
- For huge locale messages, performance will be slow down.

Alternative `i18n:registerModule` hook works the same way like lazy loading translation as well. only the file information of the locale messages is serialized and passed to the runtime context. The locale messages loaded by dynaic import are then lazy-load, with no negative affect on performance.

About details, see the [Extending messages hook](/guide/extend-messages).

### Deprecated `vueI18nLoader` option

This option is no longer necessary, because i18n custom block is supported by [unplugin-vue-i18n](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/tree/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n) **as default**.

### Deprecated `onBeforeLanguageSwitch` and `onLanguageSwitched` function options

These functions can now be triggered using Nuxt runtime hooks. Please refer to [runtime hooks](/guide/runtime-hooks) to see how to use these.


### Change some export APIs name on Nuxt context

The following API will be changed to `$`:

- `i18n` -> `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()` -> `$getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()` -> `$localePath()`
- `localeRoute()` -> `$localeRoute()`
- `switchLocalePath()` -> `$switchLocalePath()`


### Deprecated export APIs in Vuex

Vuex extension APIs were removed, because Vuex no longer requires in Nuxt3.

The following APIs are no longer available:

- `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()`
- `localeRoute()`
- `localeLocation()`
- `switchLocalePath()`
