# Lazy-load translations

How to lazy-load translations.

---

For apps that contain a lot of translated content, it is preferable not to bundle all the messages in the main bundle but rather lazy-load only the language that the users selected.
This can be achieved with **Nuxt i18n module** by letting the module know where your translation files are located so it can dynamically import them when the app loads or when the user switches to another language.
To enable translations lazy-loading, follow these steps when configuring **Nuxt i18n module**:

- Set `lazy` option to `true` (or to [configuration object](#lazy-configuration-options) if you want to customize some options).
- Set `langDir` option to the directory (can not be empty) that contains your translation files.
- Configure `locales` option as an array of object, where each object has a `file` or `files` key whose value is the translation file corresponding to the locale.
- Optionally, remove all messages that you might have passed to Vue I18n via `vueI18n` option.
- Each `file` or `files` can return either an `Object`, or a function that returns `Promise` must return `Object`.

## Basic usage

Example files structure:

```
nuxt-project/
├── lang/
│   ├── en-US.json
│   ├── es-ES.js
│   ├── fr-FR.ts
├── nuxt.config.ts
```

Configuration example:

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...

  i18n: {
    locales: [
      {
        code: 'en',
        file: 'en-US.json'
      },
      {
        code: 'es',
        file: 'es-ES.js'
      },
      {
        code: 'fr',
        file: 'fr-FR.ts'
      }
    ],
    lazy: true,
    langDir: 'lang',
    defaultLocale: 'en'
  },

  // ...
})
```

```ts {}[lang/fr-FR.ts]
export default defineI18nLocale((context, locale) => {
  return {
    welcome: 'Welcome'
  }
})

// or

export default {
  welcome: 'Welcome'
}
```

::alert{type="info"}

If your function returns an object of locale messages, **you must define it in the `defineI18nLocale` composable function**.

About `defineI18nLocale` details, see the [here](/api/composables#defineI18nLocale).

::

::alert{type="warn"}

The js / ts format is currently an experimental feature and disabled by default. 

If you want to use it, you must set the `experimental.jsTsFormatResource` module option to `true`.

::

::alert{type="info"}

If the function returns an Object available in nuxt i18n module, you can configure the dynamic locale messages, like the API (including external API) or back-end, via fetch:

```js
export default defineI18nLocale((context, locale) => {
  // for example, fetch locale messages from nuxt server
  return $fetch(`/api/${locale}`)
})
```

::


## Multiple files lazy loading

The `files` can load lazily multiple files.

This is useful because it is efficient to manage multiple files that define only differences without duplicating locale messages.

For example, let’s think for the case of Spanish language supporting. According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_language#Geographical_distribution), there are **20 countries** where Spanish is spoken as an official language!

If these countries use all using `file`, that’s so hard to maintain because of the duplication of locale messages for each contry.

In the such case, we can maintain locale messages as common for target language, and define differential locale messages for each country, which is easier to maintain.

The following is a lang directory example of Spanish language defined as a file:

```
nuxt-project/
├── lang/
│   ├── es.json     # locale messages for common Spanish
│   ├── es-AR.json  # locale messages for Argentina
│   ├── es-UY.json  # locale messages for Uruguay
│   ├── es-US.json  # locale messages for Estados Unidos
|   ...             # other contries ...
├── nuxt.config.ts
```

The following is an config example of `nuxt.confg.ts`:

```js {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...

  i18n: {
    locales: [
      // ...

      /**
       * Example definition with `files` for a country with Spanish
       */

      {
        code: 'es-AR',
        name: 'Español (Argentina)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-AR.json`, and then merge 'es-AR.json' to 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-AR.json']
      },
      {
        code: 'es-UY',
        name: 'Español (Uruguay)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-UY.json`, and then merge 'es-UY.json' to 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-UY.json']
      },
      {
        code: 'es-US',
        name: 'Español (Estados Unidos)',
        // lazy loading order: `es.json` -> `es-US.json`, and then merge 'es-US.json' to 'es.json'
        files: ['es.json', 'es-US.json']
      },

      // ...
    ],
    lazy: true,
    langDir: 'lang',
    defaultLocale: 'en',
    vueI18n: {
      // If fallback is needed, you need to define
      fallbackLocale: 'en',
    }
  },

  // ...
})
```

Attention the `files`, so the above configuration specifies multiple file names.

@nuxtjs/i18n will load locale messages with lazy loading in the order of the array specified in `files`. It then overrides the locale messages in the order in which they were loaded.

In the above `es-AR` example, it has `es.json` and `es-AR.json` into `files`. In this case, @nuxtjs/i18n lazy-load `es.json`, and the it lazy-load `es-AR.json` and overrides for `es.json` locale messages.

In the example above, only two files are defined for `files`, of course you can specify more files over 2 files. In that case, the files will be loaded and override in array order too.

By taking advantage of the characteristic that locale messages are override with sequence, it's possible to manage locale messages by defining them on a differential basis. By putting common locale messages at the first of `files`, and then putting differ of locale messages in the order in `files`, it's possible to manage resources while avoiding duplication of locale messages.

::alert{type="info"}

The locale messages with @nuxtjs/i18n Lazy loading is cached. So if the same filename is specified in `files` or other `locales` entries, once loaded, it will be used from cache.

::
