# Misc

Miscellaneous options.

---

## `experimental`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ jsTsFormatResource: false }`

Configure the flag for experimental features of the nuxt i18n module.

::alert{type="info"}
This property can also be set using [`runtimeConfig`](./runtime-config).
::

Supported properties:

- `jsTsFormatResource` (default: `false`) - Allow the format `js` and `ts` for locale messages in lazy load translation.


## `customBlocks`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ defaultSFCLang: 'json', globalSFCScope: false }`

Configure the `i18n` custom blocks of SFC.

Supported properties:

- `defaultSFCLang` (default: `'json'`) - Specify the content for all your inlined i18n custom blocks on your SFC. about details, see [here](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/blob/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n/README.md#defaultsfclang)

- `globalSFCScope` (default: `false`) - Whether to include all `i18n` custom blocks on your SFC on global scope. about details, see [here](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/blob/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n/README.md#globalsfcscope)


## `types`

- type: `string` (`composition` or `legacy`)
- default: `composition`

Enforces the type definition of the API style to be used. if you set `compostion`, Composition API types provided by Vue I18n and `@nuxtjs/i18n` are supported, else  `legacy`, Options API types are supported. If you are running a dev server with `nuxi dev`, watching the Nuxt configuration will switch the type. 

::alert{type="warning"}
If it can not detect Nuxt configuration changing, you need to run `nuxi prepare`.
::


## `debug`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Whether to use `@nuxtjs/i18n` debug mode. If `true`, logs will be output to the console.

::alert{type="warning"}
The purpose of this option is to help identify any problems with @nuxtjs/i18n.

Don't enable this option for use in production. Performance will be decreased.
::

## `parallelPlugin`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Set the plugin as `parallel`. See [nuxt plugin loading strategy](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins#loading-strategy).
