---
title: Routing
description: Routing and Strategies options
---

## `baseUrl`

- type: `string` or `function`
- default: `''`

The fallback base URL to use as a prefix for alternate URLs in `hreflang` tags. By default VueRouter's base URL will be used and only if that is not available, fallback URL will be used.

Can also be a function (will be passed a Nuxt Context as a parameter) that returns a string. Useful to make base URL dynamic based on request headers.

::alert{type="info"}

It's especially important to set this option when using SEO features, in which case it's required that generated SEO tags use fully-qualified URLs.

::

## `locales`

- type: `array`
- default: `[]`

List of locales supported by your app. Can either be an array of codes (`['en', 'fr', 'es']`) or an array of objects for more complex configurations:

```js
[
  { code: 'en', iso: 'en-US', file: 'en.js', dir: 'ltr' },
  { code: 'ar', iso: 'ar-EG', file: 'ar.js', dir: 'rtl' },
  { code: 'fr', iso: 'fr-FR', file: 'fr.js' }
]
```

When using an object form, the properties can be:

- `code` (**required**) - unique identifier of the locale
- `iso` (required when using SEO features) - The ISO code used for SEO features and for matching browser locales when using [`detectBrowserLanguage`](#detectbrowserlanguage) functionality. Should be in one of those formats:
  - ISO 639-1 code (e.g. `'en'`)
  - ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes, separated by hyphen (e.g. `'en-US'`)
- `file` - the name of the file. Will be resolved relative to `langDir` path when loading locale messages from file
- `dir` - The dir property specifies the direction of the elements and content, value could be `'rtl'`, `'ltr'` or `'auto'`.
- `domain` (required when using [`differentDomains`](#differentdomains)) - the domain name you'd like to use for that locale (including the port if used)
- `...` - any custom property set on the object will be exposed at runtime. This can be used, for example, to define the language name for the purpose of using it in a language selector on the page.

You can access all the properties of the current locale through the `localeProperties` property. When using an array of codes, it will only include the `code` property.


## `defaultDirection`

- type: `string`
- default: `ltr`

The app's default direction. Will only be used when `dir` is not specified.

## `defaultLocale`

- type: `string` or `null`
- default: `null`

The app's default locale. Should match code of one of defined `locales`.

When using `prefix_except_default` strategy, URLs for locale specified here won't have a prefix. **It's recommended to set this to some locale** regardless of chosen strategy, as it will be used as a fallback locale when navigating to a non-existent route.

## `sortRoutes`

::alert{type="warning"}

// TODO:
🚧 This feature is not implemented yet.

::

## `strategy`

- type: `string`
- default: `'prefix_except_default'`

Routes generation strategy. Can be set to one of the following:

- `'no_prefix'`: routes won't have a locale prefix
- `'prefix_except_default'`: locale prefix added for every locale except default
- `'prefix'`: locale prefix added for every locale
- `'prefix_and_default'`: locale prefix added for every locale and default

## `parsePages`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

Whether [custom paths](/guide/custom-paths) are extracted from page files

## `pages`

- type: `object`
- default: `{}`

If `parsePages` option is disabled, the module will look for custom routes in the `pages` option. Refer to the [Routing](/guide/routing-strategies) for usage.

## `onBeforeLanguageSwitch`

- type: `function`
- default: `(oldLocale, newLocale, isInitialSetup, context) => {}`

A listener called before the app's locale is changed. Can override the locale that is about to be set.

See [callbacks](/guide/callbacks)

## `onLanguageSwitched`

- type: `function`
- default: `(oldLocale, newLocale) => {}`

A listener called after app's locale has changed.

See [callbacks](/guide/callbacks)

## `skipSettingLocaleOnNavigate`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

If `true`, the locale will not be set when navigating to a new locale. This is useful if you want to wait for the page transition to end before setting the locale yourself using [`finalizePendingLocaleChange`](/api/vue-i18n#finalizependinglocalechange). See more information in [Wait for page transition](/guide/lang-switcher#wait-for-page-transition).

## `defaultLocaleRouteNameSuffix`

- type: `string`
- default: `'default'`

Internal suffix added to generated route names for default locale, if strategy is `prefix_and_default`. You shouldn't need to change this.

## `routesNameSeparator`

- type: `string`
- default: `'___'`

Internal separator used for generated route names for each locale. You shouldn't need to change this.

## `rootRedirect`

- type: `string` or `object` or `null`
- default: `null`

Set to a path to which you want to redirect users accessing the root URL (`/`). Accepts either a string or an object with `statusCode` and `path` properties. E.g

```js
{
  statusCode: 301,
  path: 'about-us'
}
```

## `dynamicRouteParams`

- type: `boolean` or `string`
- default: `false`

Whether to localize dynamic route parameters. 

If `true`, you can set the dynamic route parameter to `nuxtI18n` field of `definePageMeta` for each locale:

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@nuxtjs/i18n'
  ],

  i18n: {
    // ...
    dynamicRouteParams: true,
    // ...
  },

  // ...
})
```

```vue
<script setup>
definPageMeta({
  // ...
  nuxtI18n: {
    en: { id: 'my-post' },
    fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
  }
  // ...
})
</script>

<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

If you specify a `string` value, you can change from `nuxtI18n` field name:

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@nuxtjs/i18n'
  ],

  i18n: {
    // ...
    dynamicRouteParams: 'localize',
    // ...
  },

  // ...
})
```

```vue
<script setup>
definPageMeta({
  // ...
  localize: {
    en: { id: 'my-post' },
    fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
  }
  // ...
})
</script>

<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

See more information in [Dynamic route parameters](/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters)