# Misc

Miscellaneous options.

---

## `experimental`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ jsTsFormatResource: false }`

Configure the flag for experimental features of the nuxt i18n module.

::alert{type="info"}

This module option setting is also set to the runtime config.

::

Supported properties:

- `jsTsFormatResource` (default: `false`) - Allow the format `js` and `ts` for locale messages in lazy load translation.


## `precompile`

- type: `object`
- default: `{ strictMessage: true, escapeHtml: false }`

Configure flags that sets the behavior precompilation of locale messages.

Supported properties:

- `strictMessage` (default: `true`) Strictly check that the locale message does not contain HTML tags. If HTML tags are included, an error is thrown.
  ::alert{type="warning"}

  If you do not want the error to be thrown, you can work around it by setting it to false. However, **this means that the locale message might cause security issues with XSS**. In that case, we recommend setting the `escapeHtml` option to `true`. 

  ::

- `escapeHtml` (default: `false`) - Determine whether to escape HTML tags if they are included in the locale message.
  ::alert{type="warning"}

  If `strictMessage` is disabled by setting it to `false`, we recommend enabling this option.
  
  ::

## `types`

- type: `string` (`composition` or `legacy`) | `undefined`
- default: `undefined`

Enforces the type definition of the API style to be used. if you set `compostion`, Composition API types provided by Vue I18n and `@nuxtjs/i18n` are supported, else  `legacy`, Options API types are supported. If you are running a dev server with `nuxi dev`, watching the Nuxt configuration will switch the type. 

::alert{type="warning"}

If it can not detect Nuxt configuration changing, you need to run `nuxi prepare`.

::


## `debug`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Whether to use `@nuxtjs/i18n` debug mode. If `true`, logs will be output to the console.

::alert{type="warning"}

The purpose of this option is to help identify any problems with @nuxtjs/i18n.

Don't enable this option for use in production. Performance will be decreased.

::
