# Runtime config

Some options can be set via the `runtimeConfig`, setting options this way makes it possible to override these after building using environment variables.

---

## Usage

If you want to use environment variables to change [supported options](#supported-options), you will have to set these in `runtimeConfig.public.i18n`. 

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@nuxtjs/i18n'
  ],
  i18n: {
    // Leave options unset that you want to set using `runtimeConfig`
    // baseUrl: 'https://example.com',
    // experimental: {
    //   jsTsFormatResource: true,
    // },
  },
  runtimeConfig: {
    public: {
      i18n: {
        baseUrl: 'https://example.com',
        experimental: {
          jsTsFormatResource: true,
        },
        locales: {},
        // other options ...
      }
    }
  }
})
```

You can read more about how this works in the [Nuxt documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/going-further/runtime-config#environment-variables).


::alert{type=warning}
Only [serializable values are supported](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/going-further/runtime-config#serialization) in `runtimeConfig`, options set this way may not support all available types (such as functions) as would normally be possible using the default configuration.
::

::alert{type=info}
If you would like other options to be supported, open an issue describing your use case, or open a PR adding to add support yourself!
::


## Supported options
The module configuration takes precedence, options set through `runtimeConfig` will only be used if they are unset.

These options can be set using `runtimeConfig`:

### `baseUrl`
* key: `NUXT_PUBLIC_I18N_BASE_URL`

This runtime config option is the same as the [`baseUrl`](./routing#baseUrl) module option. 


::alert{type=warning}
Note that the `baseUrl` module option allows you to set the function, but the runtime config does not due to limitations.
::

### `experimental`
* property: `experimental.jsTsFormatResource`
* key: `NUXT_PUBLIC_I18N_EXPERIMENTAL_JS_TS_FORMAT_RESOURCE`

This runtime config option is the same as the [`experimental`](./misc#experimental) module option.

### `locales`
* property: `locales[code].domain`
* key: `NUXT_PUBLIC_I18N_LOCALES_{code}_DOMAIN`

This runtime config option allows overriding the domain set in the [`locales`](./routing#locales) module option.
