# Basic Usage

The basics to get started with the Nuxt i18n module is to translate with Vue I18n via the `vueI18n` option.

---

## Translate with Vue I18n

The basic to get started with **Nuxt i18n module** is to **translate with Vue I18n via the `vueI18n` option**

So, let's get started by adding the module to `nuxt.config`:

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@nuxtjs/i18n'
  ],
  i18n: {
    vueI18n: './i18n.config.ts' // if you are using custom path
  }
})
```

```ts {}[i18n.config.ts]
import type { I18nOptions } from 'vue-i18n'

const config: I18nOptions = {
  legacy: false,
  locale: 'en'
}

export default config
```

The `i18n.config` file exports the same options as `createI18n` function of Vue I18n. The configuration is passed to the `createI18n` function via the nuxt plugin (runtime) of this module internally.

For more details about configuration, see the [Vue I18n documentation](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/api/general.html#createi18n).

Now, put (or edit) the following the page component in `pages` directory of you project:

```vue {}[pages/index.vue]
<script setup>
const { locale } = useI18n()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <form>
      <select v-model="locale">
        <option value="en">en</option>
        <option value="fr">fr</option>
      </select>
      <p>{{ $t('welcome') }}</p>
    </form>
  </div>
</template>
```

::alert{type="info"}

The code demonstrated in this chapter is illustrated using Nuxt [Pages](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages). 

::

::alert{type="info"}

Some composable functions provided by @nuxtjs/i18n such as `useI18n` are [auto-imported by Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/auto-imports#auto-imports).

If you want to import them explicitly, you can use `#imports` as follows:


```vue
<script setup>
import { useI18n, useLocalePath } from '#imports'
// ...
</script>
```

::

You now have a really simple Vue I18n based translation environment ready to go! The `<form>` element that contains both English and French options, choosing either languages from the dropdown, you can see the word "welcome" change in its corresponding language.

For more information about **Vue I18n**, you can refer to its documentation [here](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/).


## Link localizing

The **Nuxt i18n module** extends the integrated Vue I18n to give us some i18n features for Nuxt application. In here, we introduce one of those features, the link localization with extending Nuxt pages and routing.

### Configurations

You'll need to additionally set the `defaultLocale` and `locales` options, as in the following configuration.

For localizing links, you can use the code provided from the `locales` option as the URL path prefix, except for `defaultLocale` (read more on [routing](/guide/routing-strategies)).


```diff {}[nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],
   i18n: {
+    locales: ['en', 'fr'],  // used in URL path prefix
+    defaultLocale: 'en',    // default locale of your project for Nuxt pages and routings
   }
 })
```

When rendering internal links in your app using `<NuxtLink>`, you need to get proper URLs for the current locale. To do this, the **Nuxt i18n module** provides some helper composables:

### URL path

You can localize URL path with using `useLocalePath`.

`useLocalePath` is a composable which returns a function used to get the localized URL for a given page. The first parameter can be either the path or name of the route or an object for more complex routes. A locale code can be passed as the second parameter to generate a link for a specific language:

```vue
<script setup>
const localePath = useLocalePath()
</script>

<template>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath('index')">{{ $t('home') }}</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath('/')">{{ $t('home') }}</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath('index', 'en')">Homepage in English</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath('/user/profile')">Route by path to: {{ $t('profile') }}</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath('user-profile')">Route by name to: {{ $t('profile') }}</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="localePath({ name: 'category-slug', params: { slug: category.slug } })">
    {{ category.title }}
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

Note that `localePath` can use the route's unprefixed path, which must start with `'/'` or the route's base name to generate the localized URL. The base name corresponds to the names Nuxt generates when parsing your `pages` directory, more info in [Nuxt's doc](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages).

::alert{type="info"}

If you prefer to use the Options API, you can use `this.localePath`. This API is kept for migration from Nuxt 2.

::

### Language switching path

You can localize language path with using `useSwitchLocalePath`.

`useSwitchLocalePath` is a composable function which returns a link to the current page in another language:

```vue
<script setup>
const switchLocalePath = useSwitchLocalePath()
</script>

<template>
  <NuxtLink :to="switchLocalePath('en')">English</NuxtLink>
  <NuxtLink :to="switchLocalePath('fr')">Français</NuxtLink>
</template>
```

::alert{type="info"}

If you prefer to use the Options API, you can use `this.switchLocalePath`. This API is kept for migration from Nuxt 2.

::

### URL path with Route object

You can localize advanced URL path with using `useLocaleRoute`. This is useful if you would to control internal link programmatically.

`useLocaleRoute` is a composable function that returns a `Route` object for a given page.

It works like `useLocalePath` but returns route resolved by Vue Router rather than just a full route path. This can be useful since full path returned from `useLocalePath` might not carry all information from the provided input (for example, the route params that the page doesn't specify).

```vue
<script setup>
const localeRoute = useLocaleRoute()
function onClick() {
  const route = localeRoute({ name: 'user-profile', query: { foo: '1' } })
  if (route) {
    return navigateTo(route.fullPath)
  }
}
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="onClick">Show profile</button>
</template>
```

::alert{type="info"}

If you prefer to use the Options API, you can use `this.localeRoute`. This API is kept for migration from Nuxt 2.

::
