---
title: Migration Guide
description: Follow this guide to upgrade from one major version to the other.
---

## Upgrading from `nuxtjs/i18n` v7.x

### Deprecated `vueI18n` option to not accept `createI18n` options

This is to ensure stability and distinction between compile / build-time and runtime since vue-i18n is used in runtime.

For more details please see the [GitHub Pull request](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/pull/1948#issuecomment-1482749302)

You can continue defining `vueI18n` options in `i18n.config`. Refer to the [Vue i18n](/docs/options) and [basic usage](/docs/getting-started/usage/#translate-with-vue-i18n) sections for examples on how to do so.

### Change the route key rules in `pages` option

The key of route set in the `pages` option has been changed to be file-based relative to the `pages/` directory in Nuxt, and **excluding the leading `/`**.

The reason is that it is more intuitive to match Nuxt file-based routing.

Nuxt2:

```
pages/
├── about.vue
├── users/
├──── _id/
├────── profile.vue
├── index.vue
```

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  parsePages: false,
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/_id/profile': {
      fr: '/u/:id/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

Nuxt3:

```
pages/
├── about.vue
├── users/
├──── [id]/
├────── profile.vue
├── index.vue
```

```ts {}[nuxt.config.ts]
i18n: {
  customRoutes: 'config',
  pages: {
    about: {
      fr: '/a-propos',
    },
    'users/[id]/profile': {
      fr: '/u/[id]/profil',
    }
  }
}
```

### Deprecated `localeLocation()`

Use `localeRoute` instead for the Options API style. The reason for deprecation is due to I/F changes around route resolving in Vue Router.

### Deprecated `localeLocation()` on Nuxt Context APIs

Deprecated for the same reason as the `localeLocation()` Option API.

### Deprecated `$nuxtI18nHead()`

Use `localeHead()` instead for the Options API style.

### Deprecated `nuxtI18n` component option

Replaced by the `defineI18nRoute()` compiler macro as it can be optimized with bundler.

Nuxt2:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script>
import Vue from 'vue'

export default Vue.extend({
  nuxtI18n: {
    paths: {
      pl: '/polish'
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

Nuxt3:

```vue [pages/about.vue]
<script setup>
defineI18nRoute({
  paths: {
    pl: '/polish'
  }
})
</script>
```

### Deprecated `parsePages` option

Use the `customRoutes` option. because the option name `parsePages` is not intuitive.

```diff [nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],

   i18n: {
     // ...
-    parsePages: false,
+    customRoutes: 'config',
     // ...
   }
 })
```

### Deprecated `vuex` option

Vuex is no longer required by the Nuxt i18n module, use the `useSetI18nParams` composable to set dynamic route parameters instead.

```diff [nuxt.config.ts]
 export default defineNuxtConfig({
   modules: [
     '@nuxtjs/i18n'
   ],

   i18n: {
     // ...
-    vuex: true,
     // ...
   }
 })
```

For more details, see [Lang Switcher](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters).

### Deprecated `sortRoutes` option

This option is no longer necessary since routing in Nuxt 3 no longer requires sorting.

### Deprecated `skipNuxtState` option

This option is no longer necessary as it can be replaced with [multiple files lazy loading](/docs/guide/lazy-load-translations#multiple-files-lazy-loading), which is supported in v8.

### Deprecated `i18n:extend-messages` hook

Replaced by the `i18n:registerModule` hook, reasoning behind deprecation described below:

- At build-time, the locale resources specified in the nuxt module are pre-compiled to javascript, and those resources are serialized into the runtime context with the nuxt template, which is unsafe.
- Huge locale messages impacted performance.

The alternative `i18n:registerModule` hook works the same way as lazy loading translations. Only the file information of the locale messages is serialized and passed to the runtime context. The locale messages are loaded by dynamic import and then lazy-loaded, with no negative effect on performance.

For more details see [Extending messages hook](/docs/guide/extend-messages).

### Deprecated `vueI18nLoader` option

This option is no longer necessary, because i18n custom block is supported by [unplugin-vue-i18n](https://github.com/intlify/bundle-tools/tree/main/packages/unplugin-vue-i18n) **as default**.

### Deprecated `onBeforeLanguageSwitch` and `onLanguageSwitched` function options

These functions can now be triggered using Nuxt runtime hooks. Please refer to [runtime hooks](/docs/guide/runtime-hooks) to see how to use these.

### Changed some export APIs name on Nuxt context

The following APIs have been changed to `$`:

- `i18n` -> `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()` -> `$getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()` -> `$localePath()`
- `localeRoute()` -> `$localeRoute()`
- `switchLocalePath()` -> `$switchLocalePath()`

### Deprecated export APIs in Vuex

Vuex extension APIs were removed, because Vuex no longer required in Nuxt3.

The following APIs are no longer available:

- `$i18n`
- `getRouteBaseName()`
- `localePath()`
- `localeRoute()`
- `localeLocation()`
- `switchLocalePath()`
