---
title: Breaking Changes in v9
description: Follow this guide to upgrade from one major version to the other.
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
`nuxtjs/i18n` v9 is still an alpha version
::

## Upgrade to Vue I18n v10

Vue I18n has been upgraded from v9 to v10. Vue I18n v10 has no major feature additions, but there are some disruptive changes, such as dropping some features that were deprecated in v9 and integrating the API `$tc` into `$t`, which can be used in the Legacy API style 

Check the documentation [here](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#change-t-and-t-overloaded-signature-for-legacy-api-mode) for more information.


## Drop `jit` option

JIT compilation is now the default in Vue I18n v10. 

https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/guide/migration/breaking10.html#default-enable-for-jit-compilation

Accordingly, the `jit` option in Nuxt I18n v8 is no longer needed, so this option has been removed.

## Directory restructure and `langDir` default value

We now use a default directory structure that is consistent with [directory structure changes in Nuxt 4](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/upgrade#new-directory-structure).

What changed
  * `langDir` now defaults to `locales`.
  * All i18n files are resolved relative to `<rootDir>/i18n`, this can be configured with the `restructureDir` option.

Here is an example of a project structure after this change:

```sh
app/
server/
i18n/
  locales/
    en.json
    ja.json
  i18n.config.ts
  localeDetector.ts
nuxt.config.ts
```

Reasons for change
  1. Context - i18n files are used both server-side and client-side, using a dedicated `i18n/` folder in the root directory outside `app/` and `server/` makes more sense.
  2. Clean - less clutter/fragmentation of i18n files, and should make resolving and loading files easier for us.

To ease the migration to v9 you can disable this feature by setting `restructureDir: false`, this will be removed in v10.

## Locale `iso` renamed to `language`

The `iso` property on a locale object has been renamed to `language` to be consistent with the usage of Language Tags on the web (e.g. `navigator.language` and `Accept-Language`). The original `iso` property name referred to ISO standards which describe valid Language Tags, see the [related issue](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/i18n/issues/2449) for more details.

## Runtime config properties

Some properties have changed or swapped names to better fit their functionality, the runtime config properties configured by this module are mostly used for internal purposes and should not be relied upon but it's worth noting these changes.

| v8 | v9 | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `locales` | `domainLocales` | This also changes the environment variable key to `NUXT_PUBLIC_I18N_DOMAIN_LOCALES_{code}_DOMAIN`, see [`runtimeConfig`](/docs/options/runtime-config#domainLocales) |
| `configLocales` | `locales` | | 

## SEO - `useLocaleHead`

The options parameter for `useLocaleHead` and `$localeHead` as changed in shape, having less verbose property names, as well as enabling the options by default.

This table compares the option properties of `useLocaleHead` and `$localeHead for v8 and v9:

| v8 | v9 | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-` | `lang` | New property to configure the `lang` html attributes, default: `true` |
| `addDirAttributes` | `dir` | Default changed: `false` -> `true` |
| `addSeoAttributes` | `seo` | Default changed: `false` -> `true` |
| `identifierAttribute` | `key` | |

We have added a `lang` property to the options parameter of `useLocaleHead` and `$localeHead`, originally this was not configurable on its own, see [`useLocaleHead`](/docs/api#useLocaleHead) for details on its usage.




## Nuxt context functions

In v8 both the types and name of the injected context functions (such as `$localePath`, `$switchLocalePath` and [more](/docs/api/nuxt)) did not work as intended. You may have found that these functions worked when using them without prefix (`$`) even when not assigning these functions from a composable. 

The types and names have been fixed in v9, if you have been using the unprefixed functions globally (without composable) in your project you will have to prefix these functions as they were originally intended.

- `getRouteBaseName` -> `$getRouteBaseName`
- `resolveRoute` -> `$resolveRoute`
- `localePath` -> `$localePath`
- `localeRoute` -> `$localeRoute`
- `localeLocation` -> `$localeLocation`
- `switchLocalePath` -> `$switchLocalePath`
- `localeHead` -> `$localeHead`

## Removal of deprecated `dynamicRouteParams` option and legacy dynamic route parameters implementation

Setting dynamic route parameters by setting the `nuxtI18n` property with `definePageMeta` has been fully removed in favor of the [`useSetI18nParams` composable](/docs/api#useseti18nparams), this feature is enabled by default which means the `dynamicRouteParams` option is no longer necessary.

The composable usage is similar to that of the deprecated implementation, see the migration example below:

```html
<script>
definePageMeta({
  nuxtI18n: {
    en: { id: 'my-post' },
    fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
  }
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

Should be changed to:

```html
<script>
const setI18nParams = useSetI18nParams();
setI18nParams({
	en: { id: 'my-post' },
	fr: { id: 'mon-article' }
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- pages/post/[id].vue -->
</template>
```

Check out the [Lang Switcher](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#dynamic-route-parameters) guide for more details.
